docs/reference/project-configuration.mdx, before:

A project configuration file can be any of the following:

- `commonality.config.ts`
- `commonality.config.js`

Your project's configuration should be located at the root of your project.
This should be the same directory where your package manager's lockfile is located.

<Tip>
  Use the `defineConfig` helper function to get type checking and intellisense
  for your configuration.
</Tip>

```ts commonality.config.ts
import { defineConfig } from 'commonality';

export default defineConfig({
  // ...
});
```

---

## Properties

### `checks`

```ts
Record<string, Check[]>
```

The `checks` property expects an object whose keys are [selectors](/selectors) and whose values are [Check objects](/reference/check-object).

<Info>Checks will run in the order they are defined.</Info>

```ts commonality.config.ts
import { defineConfig } from 'commonality';
import * as recommended from 'commonality-checks-recommended';

export default defineConfig({
  checks: {
    '*': [recommended.hasReadme()],
    publishable: [recommended.ensureLicense()],
  },
});
```

---

### `constraints`


```ts
Record<string, Constraint[]>
```


The `constraints` property expects an object whose keys are [selectors](/selectors) and whose value are [Constraint objects](/reference/constraint-object).

```ts commonality.config.ts
import { defineConfig } from 'commonality';

export default defineConfig({
  constraints: {
    '*': { disallow: ['deployable'] },
    config: { allow: ['config'] },
  },
});
```

Commit message:

docs: update workspaces and configuration pages (#286)

docs/reference/project-configuration.mdx, after:

A project configuration file can be any of the following:

- `commonality.config.ts`
- `commonality.config.js`

Your project's configuration should be located at the root of your project.
This should be the same directory where your package manager's lockfile is located.

<Tip>
  Use the `defineConfig` helper function to get type checking and intellisense
  for your configuration.
</Tip>

```ts commonality.config.ts
import { defineConfig } from 'commonality';

export default defineConfig({
  // ...
});
```

---

## Properties

### `checks`

An object whose keys are [selectors](/selectors) and whose values are [check objects](/reference/check-object).

<Info>Checks will run in the order they are defined.</Info>

```ts commonality.config.ts
import { defineConfig } from 'commonality';
import * as recommended from 'commonality-checks-recommended';

export default defineConfig({
  checks: {
    '*': [recommended.hasReadme()],
    publishable: [recommended.ensureLicense()],
  },
});
```

---

### `constraints`

An object whose keys are [selectors](/selectors) and whose value are [constraint objects](/reference/constraint-object).

```ts commonality.config.ts
import { defineConfig } from 'commonality';

export default defineConfig({
  constraints: {
    '*': { disallow: ['deployable'] },
    config: { allow: ['config'] },
  },
});
```


---

### `workspaces`

An array of [minimatch](https://github.com/isaacs/minimatch#usage) patterns used to identify which directories should be included when searching for packages.

```ts commonality.config.ts
import { defineConfig } from 'commonality';

export default defineConfig({
  workspaces: ['apps/*', 'packages/**', '!**/dist/**'],
});
```
