docs/checks/introduction.mdx, before:

---
title: "Introduction"
icon: "box-check"
---


Checks help you scale a consistently amazing developer experience with dynamic conformance checks that are run like tests and shared like lint rules.

Platform teams can roll out checks that deliver a consistent developer experience for an entire organization.

Tooling authors can create checks that enforce best practices for the tools they create for their entire user base.


<Tip>
  Check out our [examples](/examples/recommended-checks) to quickly integrate into your existing workflows and tools.
</Tip>

## Configuring checks
Checks are defined your [project configuration file](/reference/project-configuration) at the root of your project.
You can use [selectors](/selectors) to run checks against all the packages in your project or a subset of packages.

```typescript commonality.config.ts
import { defineConfig } from 'commonality';
import * as recommended from 'commonality-checks-recommended';

export default defineConfig({
  checks: {
    'buildable': [
      recommended.hasFile('package.json', {
        build: 'tsc --build',
        dev: 'tsc --watch',
      }),
    ],
  },
});
```

## Validating checks
You can view the status of your checks by running the [check command](/reference/cli#check).

```bash
commonality check
```

Commit message:

feat(commonality): JSON project configuration and simplified check messages (#288)

docs/checks/introduction.mdx, after:

---
title: 'Introduction'
icon: 'box-check'
---

Commonality comes with a powerful monorepo linter that can be customized to scale standards for any existing tool or workflow. Checks can be run as part of your [CI pipeline](/continuous-integration/github-actions) to ensure a consistent developer experience across an infinite number of packages.

Unlike a linter or static conformance tool, checks are dynamic functions that are run more like tests.
This allows you to read and write to disk or even make network requests to validate your project's configuration.

Checks can be [auto-fixable](/checks/creating-checks#auto-fixable-checks), have full type-safety, and are [easily testable](/checks/testing-checks) so you can ensure that you're creating the lowest friction possible for your team.

Some examples of things you can do with checks:

- Ensure that all packages have a `README.md`
- Ensure that all `ui` packages have a `tsconfig.json` that supports JSX
- Ensure that all NPM scripts have a corresponding Turborepo pipeline configured in `turbo.json`
- Ensure that all `vite.config.js` files have matching build configuration for consistent inferred tasks with NX.

<Card
  title="View all our examples"
  href="/examples/recommended-checks"
  icon="book"
>
  Check out all our examples to quickly integrate into your existing workflows
  and tools.
</Card>

## Running checks

You can view the status of your checks by running the [check command](/reference/cli#check).

```bash
commonality check
```
